## Overview

This repository contains the code for the paper -- **Scaling laws in empirical networks**

## 📂 Repository structure

- `Code/` — scripts used to analyse the networks empirically, as well as generate the random graphs from various null models.  
- `Figures/` — code for the visualizations in the paper (mainly Figure 1 and 2).  
- `Results/` — processed data and output files from the code.

## ⚙️ Requirements

- The code depends on two notable Python packages: (1) [ConfigModel_MCMC](https://github.com/UpasanaDutta98/ConfigModel_MCMC) and (2) [graph-tool](https://graph-tool.skewed.de/).
- The code was run and tested using Python 3.7.12.

You may install dependencies as follows:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## 🚀 How to run

- The python scripts are numbered in ascending order. The scripts must be run the in given order (01-08) to account for the dependencies within the workflow.
- The network statistics are generated using the scripts within the `Code` folder. 
    - The network statistics of the empirical networks can be generated by running the files `01_store_empirical_netstats.py` and `02_store_empirical_trueMGD.py`
    - The Erdos Renyi `G(n, m)` random graphs can be generated by running `03_store_Gnm_netstats.py`.
    - The Configuration model random graphs can be generated by running `04_store_Config_netstats.py`.
    - The Microcanonical DCSBM random graphs can be generated by running `05_store_DCSBM_fits.py`, `06_store_DCSBM_synthetic_graphs.py`, and `07_store_DCSBM_RemoveNonSimpleEdges.py`.
- The figures (Figure 1 and Figure 2 from the main paper) can be generated using Python notebooks `Figure1.ipynb` and `Figure2.ipynb` inside the `Figures` folder.